White House has described reports of
mass graves in Gaza as deeply disturbing
it comes after the European Union backed
a un call for an independent
investigation US National Security
adviser Jake Sullivan says Washington
wants
answers those reports were deeply
disturbing we have been in touch at
multiple levels with the Israeli
government we want answers we want to
understand exactly what happened you've
seen some public commentary from the IDF
on that but we want to know the
specifics of what the circumstances of
this were and we want to see this
thoroughly and transparently
investigated so that the whole world can
have a comprehensive answer and we the
United States can as well I can't speak
beyond that because of course we're in
the early days of fully understanding
what happened I'm going to go to our
correspondent Mike Hannah who's in
Washington DC for us so um Jake Sullivan
say that saying that the US has been in
contact with Israel about this it wants
uh answers from Israel it also wants a
transparent investigation what did has
not said which other countries have said
and the EU is that it should be an
independent
investigation that's correct yes uh what
we've heard from the White House is what
you heard there from the National
Security Council advisor Jake Sullivan
uh saying that this is disturbing they
are awaiting further details on what
happened he spe specifies too that they
have asked Israel for an accounting of
exactly what happened that statement was
some 20 hours ago and as yet there's
been no further statements either from
the White House or from the state
department so once again it would appear
given the absence of any statement in
the last 20 hours uh that nothing yet
has been heard back from Israel we would
assume uh that once the information is
provided to the White House or to State
Department then we will receive further
details as to what Israel says happened
and what the US ongoing response is
going to be yeah Mike and Joe Biden
another world leaders have just released
a statement appealing for the release of
capture captives captured by Hamas what
more do we know about
that yes this is 18 countries including
the US which appear to be trying to step
up pressure on Hamas in these ongoing
attempts at negotiation uh these
countries issuing a joint statement
calling on Hamas to immediately release
all captives uh being held in Gaza
there's no mention whatsoever of any
concomitant releasee of Palestinian
prisoners being held in Israel by the
Israeli government uh but this is
stepping up pressure on Hamas it would
appear as these negotiations grind
forward uh the statement says as well
that the release of the captives would
allow for a greater influx of
humanitarian Aid into Gaza uh this is
require regarded as utterly essential
but looming behind all of this is
ongoing concern about an Israeli
operation in Rafa in the South this
would create massive issues within Gaza
and would certainly derail any
possibility of ongoing negotiation Mike
thanks very much indeed Mike Hannah
talking to us from Washington
DC make sure to subscribe to our channel
to get the latest news from alaz